there is one thing that americans are really good at and that is small talk conversations. are you good at small talk in english? never fear. in today’s lesson you are going to learn the top ten most common small talk questions and how to answer them, plus three bonus questions at the end of today’s lesson. you will never be stuck frozen with nothing to say in a small talk conversation in english again. and like always, i have created a free pdf worksheet for you with all of today’s ten and three bonus small talk questions and answers so that you’re never frozen and not knowing what to say. the next time you have a conversation, it’s going to be no problem for you. plus, to help you really master these small talk questions and answers, i have included inside the pdf worksheet a free speaking practice. you can download this speaking practice, listen to my voice saying these questions and answers, and repeat them out loud with me. this is the number one way to improve your pronunciation and your speaking skills. when you are repeating or shadowing with someone else, it is a lot easier to speak like them, to remember what you’re saying, and to actually master the phrases that you want to learn. so, how can you get this free pdf worksheet plus bonus speaking practice? all you have to do is click on the link in the description, enter your name and email address, and voila – just like that, the free worksheet and bonus speaking practice will land in your email inbox. and something even cooler is that you never need to sign up for my free pdf worksheets again. you just sign up one time and i will continue to send them to you every single week. it is my gift to you. so, click on the link in the description to get the worksheet and the speaking practice and get started. all right let’s start with today’s lesson. the first three small talk questions are just general – the most commonly used. let’s imagine a scenario: you are walking through your neighborhood and your neighbor is watering her plants. you want to say something to her. what should you say? here you go: how’s it going? great question. this is an excellent question and extremely common with all ages. your neighbor might say, pretty good, how about you? or maybe your neighbor will add a little more and say something like, pretty good – just trying to keep these plants alive. how about you? or you could ask, hey, what have you been up to? and your neighbor might reply, oh, not much – mostly working and spending time with the kids. what about you? this final question that is often asked in return could be asked two ways. they might ask, what about you? or how about you? – which is really just returning the question to you. it’s bouncing the ball back in your court and making you have to answer the same question. so, that’s why i want you to practice these answers as well. our third question you might ask your neighbor as she’s watering her plants is, how’s everything been? “how’s everything been?” doesn’t require a big event in their life (like a wedding or a trip) for you to ask. it just means “how is your life going? how have you been lately?” and your neighbor might say, it’s been good – busy as always, no complaints. how about you? here it’s your turn to answer.the next two small talk questions have to do with your health. this is a common small talk topic. imagine the scenario: you’re going to meet a friend at a café, and you know that your friend had a cold recently. you want to make some small talk, so you might ask: are you feeling any better today? notice in a lot of these questions, the “-ing” ending sound (like in “feeling”) is cut off – “feelin’” – “are you feelin’ any better today?” this just makes it more personal and more relatable. it’s not rude to use this casual pronunciation with all ages – you’re welcome to use it, and it’s just a comfortable way to speak with other people. your friend might say, yeah, much better. i just have a little cough now, but i’m feeling much better. thanks for asking. (this phrase “thanks for asking” is a really kind way to show the other person that you appreciate that they remembered or cared.) Let’s imagine that instead of your friend having a cold, it was your friend’s son who had a cold. You might ask instead: how’s your son doing? and your friend might say, oh yeah, he had a cold forever, but he’s finally getting better – I’m so glad. thanks for asking. You could use this question in a more general sense by asking, how’s your family doing? This isn’t necessarily about their health; it’s just a general polite inquiry (though if you ask “how’s your son doing?” in the context of him being sick, it implies you’re asking about his health). You’re welcome to use it generally as well: “how’s your family doing?” Great question.the next two small talk questions are about work and daily life. let’s imagine the scenario: you’re at the grocery store and you run into a co-worker who hasn’t been at the office lately because they’ve been on a trip. what can you say in this scenario? you might ask about their trip, like: “when did you get back into town?” now, this is just a logistics question. it’s not the same as saying “how was your trip? tell me all about it,” especially if you have a formal relationship and you don’t want to get into details. asking “when did you get back?” simply acknowledges that you knew they were away and opens a bit of small talk. so you could ask, “when did you get back into town?” and your coworker might say, “i just got back a couple days ago. the jet lag has been really tough this time.” Okay, great answer. And because your coworker hasn’t been in the office lately, your coworker might then ask you, “how’s work going?” If you don’t want to talk much about work, you could just answer in an evasive way: “it’s going fine. it’s fine – nothing much to report.” (It’s perfectly acceptable in small talk to be brief if you want to move on.) But you’re also welcome to share a couple more details. For example, if someone asks “how’s work going?” you might say, “oh, it’s going well! i just finished up a really big project – it was so cool and I’m really glad we finished it by the deadline.” That kind of answer gives the other person an opening to ask questions about it if they want, and it could start a bigger conversation – or it might just remain small talk. the next two small talk questions are about weekends and free time. let’s imagine that it’s monday morning and you’re at the office coffee station. your colleague walks up. (Don’t freeze and panic – because after this lesson, you’ll know exactly what to say!) You could say something like: “hey, what’d you do this weekend?” Great question. Your colleague might answer, “not too much – I just saw some friends and then caught up on chores I needed to do.” What about you? – Here they are throwing the question back to you: “what about you? / how about you?” So make sure that you’re prepared to answer. If this scenario happens later in the week (say on a Friday), you might ask your colleague: “got any plans for the weekend?” Got any plans for the weekend? – This is a pretty casual way to ask. Notice I didn’t formally say “Do you have any plans for this weekend?” – I abbreviated it to “Got any plans for the weekend?” This informal phrasing (maybe with a little shrug) makes it clear you’re just making small talk, not seriously asking to join them! If you asked very formally “Do you have plans for this weekend?” someone might wonder if you’re hinting to spend time together, which could be awkward. So when you ask this question, keep it casual: “Got any plans for the weekend?” Your colleague might answer, “Not really – my mom’s coming into town on Sunday, but I don’t have any plans for the rest of the weekend. Probably just take it easy.” Great, that’s a casual way to answer. Of course, if you feel the other person is a bit uncomfortable sharing or if you don’t want to tell them your plans, you don’t have to give details – you can always deflect. For example, you could just say, “eh, not really. how about you?” – and throw it right back at them. If you don’t feel like sharing anything personal, that’s fine. our final small talk question (plus three bonus questions) are all about the most common small talk topic ever: the weather. No matter who you’re talking to – a random person you don’t know, a colleague, a friend, a neighbor – the weather is a safe topic and it affects everybody. Sure, weather can be a bit boring, but we can make it interesting with these questions! These are questions I use all the time, so I want to make sure you can use them as well. Let’s imagine this scenario: you’re waiting at the bus stop next to someone you don’t know, and it’s extremely cold – unusually cold for this time of year. What can you say? You could comment on it: “Can you believe this weather?” (Can you believe this weather?) – Wonderful question. The other person might say, “I know – it seems like winter is never going to end.” Or you might say, “ugh, the weather has been so unpredictable lately – it’s hot one day and cold the next. I never know what I’m supposed to wear!” The other person might respond, “I know, right? I just wear my winter coat in the morning, and by the afternoon I only have a t-shirt on.” (laugh) This kind of crazy weather affects us all! Now, imagine the weather is actually okay – pretty nice out. What could you say? Maybe: “It’s such a nice day today, isn’t it?” – That little “isn’t it?” at the end is a tag question we tack on hoping the other person will reply. “It’s such a nice day today, isn’t it?” The other person might say, “I know, it is! I can’t believe it.” Or maybe they’ll just say, “yeah.” (Maybe they don’t feel like having a conversation – that’s okay!) But this kind of back-and-forth about the weather is really common in the U.S. Let’s imagine another weather scenario: you’re at the bus stop and it’s pouring rain – a very inconvenient weather when you’re waiting for the bus. Hopefully there’s a little shelter you can stand under. You might say something like: “I heard it’s supposed to rain all weekend.” – Unfortunate! Maybe you need rain where you live, or maybe it’s just too much rain. If someone said to you “I heard it’s going to rain all weekend,” how could you reply? You can commiserate with them. (The word commiserate means to complain together.) So you might say, “ugh, it’s been raining for so long – I wish it would just stop.” Now you are commiserating together about the bad weather. there you have it. ten common small talk questions and answers that i use all the time – and you can too – plus three bonus questions. i hope you enjoyed those! don’t forget to download the free pdf worksheet for today’s lesson. it includes all of today’s important small talk questions and answers, plus the bonus speaking practice. in this speaking practice, i’m going to be saying out loud each of the questions and answers, and then pausing to give you a chance to repeat exactly what i said. this kind of repeat-after-me practice is the best way to remember what you’ve learned – you’re using it right away, so don’t miss out on this speaking practice! all you need to do is click on the link in the description, enter your name and email, and voila – just like that, the free pdf worksheet and speaking practice will land in your email inbox. it is my gift to you. so click on the link in the description and don’t wait – start speaking! use this lesson to have small talk conversations wherever you go (or even just with me in the speaking practice). but wait – do you want more? i recommend watching this video next, where you will learn ten everyday expressions that i use in my evening routine, including what to say when you come home from work completely tired. what should you say?